China has amassed more debt in recent
years than in other countries just
before they had major failures watch as
they attempt to increase this amount as
conditions get worse if domestic
consumption doesn't pick up they will
need to pick up the slack through
interventionist policies you came here
for the truth so let me unveil that for
you today we're going to talk about
China but first I want to discuss the
SMP specifically this margin that net
credit balance versus the S&P 500 what
you need to understand is this the SMP
on average since 1980 has been moving
upward and you will see something during
these times when you have these very
extreme increases in the stock market
you also have something else and that is
extreme amounts of debt and investors
having negative net worth said
differently of course look at this year
2000 you had that in verse relationship
clearly present net worth goes down the
amount of debt and stock market rises in
an upward fashion same thing from 2008
and lo and behold an extreme case right
now where you have the stock market
rising dramatically just in the past
couple years and that has just gone to
such extreme levels and that doesn't
surprise me one bit and I know it
doesn't surprise you either let's read
what they said at the bottom because I
think it is very telling these days
every rising asset price every single
bubble comes at the expense of enormous
increases
something I completely agree with and
there are still people who wish to claim
that this is not a bubble that it's okay
to get deep into debt to purchase a home
or stocks with leverage can't miss out
on those rates and sure that is still
true in theory all you have to do is get
out in time
if only the Fed can get out in time if
only you can get out in time that's what
concerns me something I've mentioned
many times I just want to move on
quickly through this video I don't want
it to drag on too long the CME Group
okay now a lot of people ignore this
those people who are invested but it's
okay if you are invested I am NOT
speaking negatively of those people who
are invested in the stock market or
bonds or anything else I don't recommend
that I don't recommend that in my books
at this time I don't recommend it in my
videos because there's too much risk and
fragility and so one of the issues that
I have is that there are stock market
incentives purchasing incentives for
central banks to buy up shares and look
at this right here
central bank incentive program right out
of the cme group what is the incentive
program it allows qualified participants
to receive discounted fees for their
proprietary trading of CME Group
products one of those things that you
must be a non US central bank
multilateral Development Bank
multilateral financial institutions sub
regional bank and so on so basically
says look if you are basically not in
the US on a US central bank but you are
the I don't know the AIB for example or
the World Bank or the IMF or a foreign
central bank Bank of Japan you can get
in on this execute all trades in the
qualified participants name it's also
important against the
some other things I won't talk about
that essentially look if your central
bank you're going to get these preferred
rates you're gonna be able to buy up
these shares and you're going to be able
to obviously print up that money so it's
all fictional
doesn't matter though because it's
propping up the stock market
it's propping up assets and these are
some facts that people cannot deny
company valuations are at sky high right
now at twenty six point four for the S&P
500 p/e ratio is the highest ever except
for two occasions 2008 2000 and those
ended pretty badly I assure you a twenty
eight point nine three the Shiller p/e
ratio looks at the company valuations
over a longer term a 10-year period
adjust for inflation is the highest
level ever except for two occasions 2008
1929 those ended badly as well as far as
I'm aware price to sales ratio are near
the highest levels in 50 years
price-to-book ratio haven't been this
level since the 2008 crash and the stock
market cap to GDP ratio is the highest
since the 2000 crash all of these our
facts all of these are very important
does it mean the stock market is going
to crash tomorrow
no can it go on a lot more yes but the
intervention needs to continue that's my
point a lot of people say I don't care
because I'm simply trying to ride the
wave and if you are and if you're making
money at least you believe that you're
making money and go with it if that's
what you want to do I'm not here to stop
you I'm here to present the facts
percentage change in private sector debt
five years before a major downturn look
at everything that has happened here us
prior to the financial crisis Japan
leading up to their crisis that they
have never been able to get out of and
it goes on all of those pale in
comparison
what we are seeing today in China up
until quarter three of 2014 anyway
that's the stats that's from the biz the
IMF and the National Bureau of
Statistics and you can see clearly what
has happened massive amounts of debt
have been accumulated and it's not
stopping I assure you this is going on
them extreme levels of debt consumption
have been very apparent credit to GDP
gap as of quarter 1 2016 in terms of
percentage look at this huge compared
with Asia as a whole you can see that is
significantly different and look at this
China's 30 percent credit deviation
ratio implies distressed assets of 3
trillion dollars we are talking extreme
levels of toxic assets my opinion anyway
and that's the way that we look at it
when any of these countries take on
massive amounts of that whether that is
in the toxic realm whether that is in
the so-called triple-a and everything
else if they're taking on any type of
debt bonds corporate debt anything look
at all that the in fact if you look at
the percentages of all the data that's
garbage that all these countries are
buying when you compare them to look at
the situation here it's terrible Spain
Portugal and others where they have been
the ones producing so much bad debt you
have countries which are buying it all
up and it's not going to end well 2017
announced store closings I mean this is
and all these huge stores all the way
down Radio Shack pay less and so on
closing in total we're talking about
thousands and thousands of stores
shutting their doors now it doesn't mean
that the company is necessarily going
bankrupt
in some cases but it is showing you that
things are changing an economy is not
getting better it's getting worse
Venezuela the bikers thundered up in a
phalanx of red jackets into our clothes
some with their faces covered revving
motorcycles before a thousand protesters
in Caracas they threw tear gas and so on
they pulled pistols and fired somebody
got shot and unfortunately was killed
and now what has happened is essentially
like militias who are now protecting the
president in charge and things are going
haywire there's chaos that has taken
place right now
I believe that this is going to get much
worse before it gets any better I don't
know if this statistic is true I mean
it's it's so incredible to think that
but one in five UK adults doesn't know
how to boil an egg I mean I've read a
lot of statistics over the years this
one to me it seems pretty extreme yes I
don't know there's a lot of other
information here if you want to read
that for yourself take a look at it
that's all for this video I just want to
tell you a couple of things right now
I'm pretty upset about this but this is
what's happening we've received warnings
of it previously and YouTube creators
are generally upset and for good reason
receive this email usually I get these
emails one at a time and they are sort
of sporadic but I have noticed recently
an uptick in this essentially what it
says is that thanks for submitting your
videos but they weren't approved for
monetization if you look at this video
right here this is my first video 2011
it's not a proof of monetization and
many of these are actually in fact some
of my first videos I mean this one right
here from episode 9 it's probably again
2011 they're going through all of them
fine-tooth comb
and banning all of them I don't care
about the money in fact you know these
have like a couple hundred views they
basically got $0 but I put monetization
on all the videos and they're just going
through and I think now it might be a
manual situation because it was just
before the robots were picking up
randomly I don't know how they were
doing so now they just went through and
grabbed the whole bunch then the video I
had posted previously not last night but
the night before this one here Venezuela
mass panic food shortages power out his
huge clashes will you be next as the
title this one received a notification
separately I looked through the title
description tags comments everything
that I personally wrote down there is no
mention of war there's no mention of
Isis or violence or anything else
none of that I mean I said huge clashes
but is that really something power
outages I mean I don't know where the
algorithm is being tripped up the only
thing I can think of is now individuals
are upset at me and they're flagging the
videos and that's sad that's truly true
sad if that's the case I don't know
what's happening I'm upset about it and
what I am what I'm doing to hopefully
mitigate this is the contents going to
stay the same I'm going to be very
cautious with what I put in the titles
and descriptions and everything else as
I always have been
I'll be even more cautious and I'll
probably try to show you this in the
next video but essentially what I've
done instead of putting the sources in
the video description I've created a
Google document which I'm sharing with
everybody there'll be a link in the
description that will be a link to that
Google Doc and it's going to have all my
sources in it so I'll be doing it by
date and you'll just have to search
through by date go down and you will see
all the sources from that particular day
it's you know I would much much prefer
to have it in the video these are the
steps I have to take I don't want my
videos to be knocked off from YouTube
because not because the money but
because specifically that by the way
these days especially even the biggest
creators out there don't make any money
anymore I don't know what the heck
YouTube is doing you're supposed to try
to invite people in but anyway doesn't
matter I didn't want to do this this way
I wanted to be able to have that there
so an individual can just go in the
description click the link right away
it's one extra click you know this is
what we have to do so I hope you
appreciate that any way that I'm
including my sources I always do but I'm
thinking maybe it's they you know are
able to see into the link and see what
those are about so this way you know
even if it's controversial now I can
post it I think I'll be ok with that I'm
gonna try this anyway this is going to
be trial and error
so we'll see what happens if you found
the video informative if you want to
support me please give me a thumbs up
last but not least if you found this
video informative I know you will find
my books the money GPS and global
economic collapse even more informative
so head over to Amazon where you can
actually look inside the book for
yourself
take care